"I've worked hard in my education and career to prepare myself to become a world class accountant. I received my BBA in Accounting from the University of Illinois and then went to work for KPMG after graduation. I passed the CPA exam on my first try and have progressed well in my career. I was recently promoted from Staff Auditor to Senior Auditor and was selected to train new hires in our region on recent GAAP accounting changes…"
"I've worked hard in my education and my internships to prepare myself to become a world class accountant. I will be receiving my BBA in Accounting from the University of Illinois and have already completed two internships with large public accounting firms the past two summers. I worked for KPMG last summer in tax accounting and Ernst and Young the summer before in audit. I have already taken the prep exams for the CPA and am ready to sit for the CPA exam in the spring. I earned the Intern of the Year Award for the Chicago branch of KPMG this past summer…"
"Because I'm the best person for the job. Here's why: I have all of the required qualifications that you are asking for in this job. The education, the experience, the industry experience. But I also bring a passion to the job that makes me the best person for the job. Why? Because that passion translates into results. I really love what I do. Let me give you an example…"
"Because I'm the best person for the job. I know you are interviewing other students with similar qualifications in terms of my degree and my internship. Yet I was awarded the Employee of the Month award as an intern this past summer and was the first intern ever to receive that award. I was given that award over all other nominations of their full-time staff. That award was given due to my delivery on a project that no one else had been able to successfully complete. I not only delivered the project, but I did it while also working on two other projects, both of which were completed during my job one summer as an intern. Let me tell you about the project where I won the award…"
"In the near term, I am focused on becoming a subject matter expert in my field. I do want to prepare myself for future promotional opportunities, if they come about. I am working to prepare myself for managerial opportunities in the future by taking on the lead role on project teams such as my current network integration project. Yet I am also flexible to take on roles which will broaden my exposure, which is why I have become involved in two cross-functional team projects, one with the finance group and one with the marketing group. This not only strengthens my relationships with other teams, but also broadens my knowledge base for interacting at a higher level.
"In the near term, I am focused on coming up to speed quickly in my new role. My longer range goal is to become a subject matter expert in my field. I want to become the person others seek out for the answers to their most difficult problems. As an example of this, in my recent internship I took over management of the internal collaboration site for the project managers. The site had not been updated in over a year, so I took responsibility for making the updates and incorporating current material that would be of benefit to everyone. My work in this area won a departmental award, would you like to see a copy?"
"I have several notable accomplishments in my career. Probably the most notable accomplishment was the delivery of the most recent version update to one of our core products for customer payments. This was a 12-month project and I was one of 8 team members. What made it notable for me was that my role expanded from being one of the tech team members to taking the lead on building the mobile components of the product. In order to deliver this aspect of the product, I pulled in three new project resources with specific skills in each of the mobile technology platforms we targeted and cross-trained all project resources to support each platform. In the end, we delivered the product on time and have received numerous accolades, both internal and external. The mobile component was specifically identified to be world class and distinguished the product at its release. Our CEO spent time showing the mobile components to the press and industry and it has since met with excellent reviews. Would you like to see the Android or iPhone version of the product?"
I have several notable accomplishments in both my education and my work experience. Probably the most notable accomplishment was delivery of the mobile apps project during my internship this past summer. I joined the tech development team at a time when they were in the process of losing a team member due to relocation. That team member was the lead for the iOS version of the mobile app under development. Since I had already developed two iPhone apps and no one else on the team had worked with iOS, I was asked to take the lead for the iOS development and deployment, effectively half of the project. This was outside the original scope of my internship, but definitely mission critical. I was able to deliver the app on time before completion of my internship and have deployed it to the iTunes store. It has already received over 100 positive reviews from customers. Would you like to see it?"
"Several of my capstone courses for my major tied directly into the work I've been doing on the job. For example, my Algorithms class has tied in directly into my current project, as we're seeking to optimize the code for presenting user results. I was able to apply a unique algorithm that greatly increased the user interaction with the results on that particular page. Would you like me to show it to you?"
"Several of my classes have tied into real world examples for my career. A recent example is with our case study class, where we reviewed a recent case of the merger between a large national bank and a smaller regional bank. Even though the case was interesting and highly relevant, it was two years old by the time we reviewed it in class. With guidance from our professor, I reached out to one of the Vice Presidents at the regional bank to assess the impact of the merger. It provided valuable insight not only into the financial models used for making the merger at the time, but also how they played out in the merger itself. My final paper ended up winning an award within my department. Would you like me to show it to you?"
"Yes I am. An example of this is my current team, the Global Standards Project, where we are all working together with a variety of background and skills to produce a result which none of us could have achieved individually. So it's important that we all communicate well with each other on an ongoing basis. Some of this takes place in our weekly status meeting, where we get together to update on our progress toward the goal. But I think the most important aspect is the ad hoc meetings that take place during the week between different team members. One of the members of our team taught us how to scrum on problems and now we are all using it as a way to both communicate and involve others to move the project forward. These scrum sessions are usually impromptu and might only last for 10-15 minutes, but they help to get team members unstuck on problems they are facing so that they don't have to wait until the Friday status meeting to discuss. So we are all staying in constant communication with each other to not only reach our own goals, but also to help others in reaching their project goals. Net result is that we already have four distinct deliverables and have already recorded more than $350,000 in cost savings in just the past two months. And, based on my interaction with the team, I am currently being trained as a Scrum Master to lead future scrum sessions."
"Yes I am. An example of this was with my summer internship team, the Global Standards Project, where we were all working together with a variety of background and skills to produce a result which none of us could have achieved individually. It's important to note that I joined an already established team, so it was important to me to communicate with others and make sure I was on track for delivering my part of the project. Although my deliverable was a small part of the overall project, there were several team dependencies based on my ability to deliver. So I not only kept everyone current during the weekly meetings, I also worked closely with several key team members throughout the week to make sure I kept my portion of the project on track. The end result is that I delivered on time and within budget. The entire project met its deliverables and they are now on to the next phase of the project."
"I recently had a conflict with an employee in another department who had a project which was dependent on work being done by myself and two other members of our team. He had sent a rather urgent e-mail acusing us of derailing his project. I had never met him before, so I asked to get together with him for coffee. I asked him to walk me through his project and the interdependency of his project with our project. I then walked him through our project and timelines. Once we had the opportunity to communicate our independent priorities, we could begin talking about our shared priorities. We agreed to a timeline that would help us both meet our goals and the conflict was resolved before it became a major incident."
"I recently had a disagreement with one of my professors over the wording of a question on one of the key exams, which was missed by several members of the class due to the ambiguity. I brought it up to the professor privately and personally, but he was dismissive of my request. After discussing it with several classmates, we went to him together to discuss it further. At that point, he agreed that there was a level of ambiguity in the question, but still would not change the grade of the test. However, he did appreciate us bringing it to his attention and gave us the opportunity to work on a separate project for extra credit to make up for the shortfall on the test. We completed the extra credit and we were all happy with the end result. It wasn't necessarily the solution we were seeking, but it was a compromise that was acceptable."
"I have quite a few strengths…(pause to think)…probably my greatest strength is my reliability. Part of my reliability is consistently being there, I have a 100% on time record at work and have had it for the last three years. But it's more than that. People know that they can trust me to do what I say I will do, they trust me to deliver. For example, my boss had a difficult project that needed to be completed in a short amount of time. He asked me in a meeting with the rest of our team to take on this project. After the meeting, he told me that he gave me the project because he knows that I will deliver on time. He's right. I just delivered that project yesterday, a day ahead of schedule. And it was right the first time, no corrections needed."
"Good question. I have quite a few strengths, but if I had to focus on one that I would consider to be my greatest strength, it would be my work ethic. I’m driven to succeed and deliver results, which I know is not the case with many others. As an example, on my recent internship, I was given a secondary project which my boss later realized was much too large in scope to be accomplished within the timeframe of my internship. Yet I was really into the project and kept working on it long after the other interns went home each day. I really wanted to deliver this project before my internship was completed. In the end, I was able to have a prototype up and running before my last day. My boss said she was amazed at how much I accomplished and how I completed something that she didn’t think would be possible…"
"I have had problems in the past with taking on too much work and then not delivering a quality and timely product because I was stretched too thin in too many areas. I know it's a weakness, because it reflects negatively on my end deliverables. I want to deliver quality in everything I do, but I have not always been able to do so when multiple priorities stack up. Part of the difficulty is that work was coming from outside groups and my boss did not have visibility into the requests being made. So I developed a project prioritization spreadsheet that I would review with my boss whenever a new request came in for additional work. My boss would review and approve moving projects up and down in priority based on the new requests. That way it allowed me to focus on completing what is most important to my boss with the highest quality, while moving the less important projects off to the side until time is available for completion. This is still a work in progress for me and I still need to get better at this, but it's an area where I am focused on continuously improving."
"My boss would say that I was one of the most productive individuals on the team and that I was key to helping our team achieve our goals for the year. We not only met our key goals for the year, we also delivered on two additional projects, one of which won the President's Award for outstanding achievement. I know she would say that, because that's what she wrote in my performance appraisal. I have a copy of it for your review, along with a copy of the President's Award that I received for the Afterburner Project. Would you like to see them?"
"I have received personal feedback from several of my professors, who refer to me as one of the most dedicated students with whom they have worked along with recommending me for the Outstanding Student in Accounting Award. I won that award my Senior year and had been recommended by the Department Chair. I have his letter or recommendation along with the copy of the award, would you like to see them?"
