"Wow, well let's see…I was born in 1992 in Chicago, Illinois. I was the second boy in a family of four boys. We got along OK, except for my older brother, especially when he got older and joined a gang. My parents were Catholic, so it was a pretty strict upbringing. I made my first communion in second grade and was confirmed in seventh grade. I was even an altar boy, can you believe that! I had a pretty rough childhood and I spent some time at reform school…"
Well, I really need this job and it would be awesome to work here! I've been unemployed for a while and my Mom is starting to get on my case about it. And, y'know, I really don't like living in the basement anymore. I want to get out on my own and be independent. So if you hire me, I would be able to get out of the house and be off on my own. Life would be good.
"My long term goal is to have your job. Actually, that's more my mid-term goal. My long term goal is to become the CEO. So I want to put myself on that path and continue to make course corrections along the way until I finally achieve that goal. So I'm pretty ambitious in what I want to do, I guess the real question is whether you can provide me with the roadmap for getting to the corner office?"
"Hmmm…greatest accomplishment? I'm not sure I have a greatest accomplishment. Most of the projects I have been working with have been canceled, but no fault of my own. We usually get ready to deliver something and then the project funding gets pulled and we are never able to actually deliver. So then we all scramble to get moved to another project before we get targeted for layoffs. Some people at our company aren't as good at that as me and they've ended up being laid off. But I'm a survivor and I've been able to avoid the layoff ax all these years. So that's probably my greatest accomplishment is that I haven't been laid off in spite of all of the projects being canceled. I'm pretty good at laying low and staying out of the spotlight."
"Well, I learned how to hold my beer, that's for sure. When I arrived on campus as a Freshman, I was a real lightweight. But over time, I learned to drink with the best of them. I know it's important to be able to hold your liquor in a work setting so that you don't do or say something stupid when you're out drinking with your co-workers. Most of my classes weren't really tied to work and the ones that were tied to my career were just plain boring. So I've been working just to get my degree and get out of here so that I can start doing real work. The partying has been fun, but it's time to get on with my life."
"You bet I am! That is, if I'm on the right team. If I'm not on the right team, and that's happened to me, I will work to get moved to a different team. Just like LeBron James had to make the move to Miami, I've had to move around teams to get on the right one. Although I guess I wouldn't move back to Cleveland, but you get the idea. If someone can get me the ball when I'm hot, hey I'm smoking hot. Surround me with other superstars and I'll be a superstar, too! So now I'm looking to get off my team and join another team so that I can be my best. My current team was good for a while, but now they kinda suck and I'm doing all the work. I want to move to a team where everyone plays their best and we can win a championship."
"I've always found that I need to show the other person, in detail, the error of their ways, then they will eventually come around to seeing my way being the best way to do things. Do I have conflict? Sure. But having conflict is a healthy thing. I actually welcome conflict. In fact, I grew up in a family where conflict was a way of life. I got battered and bruised growing up that way, but I learned how to come out swinging and make my way in the world."
"Well, I think I'm pretty much awesome in any and every area you can think of. You name it, I have it covered. In fact, I really don't have any weaknesses, pretty much everything is my strength. So if you were going to ask that question about what is my greatest weakness, don't, because I don't really have any. That really bugs me when people ask that question, because it assumes that I have a weakness of some sort and I don't. If you look up 'awesome' in the dictionary, my name will be there."
"My greatest weakness is that I'm a workaholic. I don't have any balance in my life and tend to stay late at work to complete all of my projects, often until 3 in the morning. I'm usually the first one in and the last one to leave. I know I should probably address my workaholic tendencies, but I know they help me to get everything completed. So I just keep on working, even when I'm not at work. As a result, my personal life has suffered, I'm recently divorced, my kids say they never get to see me, which is true. My life is a train wreck due to working all of these crazy hours. I just keep working and working."
"Well, I'm not quite sure, since I really didn't have much of a relationship with any of my professors. I doubt any of them actually knew who I was. You see, I went to a public university and most of the classes were in big lecture halls. So it was really difficult to get to know a professor on a personal level. I met some of the TA's when I went in for help and tutoring and they would probably say I was a little bit slow to learn the material, but eventually got it."
"Well, I've always wanted to be a movie star. All the way through high school and college, everyone kept telling me I should go to Hollywood, that I would make it big. I still keep going to auditions, hoping that someday my number will be called. But in the meantime, I need to make a living. And this job is better than waiting on tables, right?"
"Wow, well I'm pretty sure it wouldn't be in this field! I just do this work to pay the bills. My ideal job would be one where I wouldn't have to work very hard, but get paid a lot of money. Where I could set my own hours so that I could do my own thing when and where I wanted. I think most people are working stiffs. My father worked for 45 years for the same company, then retired and died a year later. That's not what I want to do with my life. I would love to travel for a living, yeah, I guess that would be my ideal job."
"Well, I took a class with a professor I really liked, he made the class so fun that I thought this might be a really interesting way to make a living. I didn't really connect the dots between the major and potential career until late in my Senior year. Although I love Chemistry, I wasn't really interested in working for a company in the chemical field. So I had to look around to see what else I could do with my degree. I guess I really just fell into this career field because it was the only thing out there available at the time for someone with my degree. I didn't really plan it that way."
"Well, I guess since I saw your job posting! It was a really interesting job posting, did you write it? Well, anyway, I started looking into career options in this field and decided that this is something that I would really enjoy. And I read that those who are successful can make six figures, so I'm all over that one!"
"Whoo boy, good question. Well, frankly, I just try to get through each day one day at a time. And for today, my goal is just to get through all of these interviews in one piece. I'm probably going to go out with my friends afterward for a celebration drink. And if I get a job offer, watch out, there is gonna be a PAR-TEE!"
"I know I need additional training to become more effective, but I just don't have the time for it right now. What can you offer me in terms of training?"
"I'm pretty money motivated, so money is my measuring stick. I know if I'm successful based on how much money I have been earning. If I'm doing well, I would expect to be paid more money. At the end of the day, the only real measure that crosses all professions is money. So show me the money and I'll show you the motivation."
"Success if a very subjective term. It means different things to different people. How I might define success may be very different from how you define success. Just waking up this morning was a success for me. How about you?"
"Well, with all of the layoffs that happen in this industry, it's pretty important to keep your head low when they are making out the layoff list. You just need to outlast everyone else, to be the last person standing. And I've managed to successfully keep my head low for my entire career."